I am Elizabeth Garrett Anderson, born in 1836,
in Whitechapel, east London, The United Kingdom.
I was a pioneering physician, political campaigner
and the first Englishwoman to qualify as a
doctor.
During my childhood, my father became a successful
businessman, enabling him to send his children
to good schools. After school, I was expected
to live the life of a lady. However, meetings
with the feminist Emily Davies and Elizabeth
Blackwell, the first American woman physician,
convinced me that I should become a doctor.
This was unheard of in 19th century Britain
and my attempts to study at several medical
schools were denied. I enrolled as a nursing
student at Middlesex Hospital and attended
classes intended for male doctors but was
barred after complaints from other students.
As the Society of Apothecaries did not specifically
forbid women from taking their examinations,
in 1865, I passed their exams and gained a
certificate which enabled me to become a doctor.
The society then changed its rules to prevent
other women entering the profession this way.
With my father's backing, in 1866, I established
a dispensary for women in London and was made
a visiting physician to the East London Hospital.
Here, I met James Anderson, a successful businessman,
who I married in 1871. I remained determined
to obtain a medical degree, so I taught myself
French and went to the University of Paris,
where I successfully earned my degree. The
British Medical Register refused to recognize
my qualification.
In 1872, I founded the New Hospital for Women
in London with my mentor, Elizabeth Blackwell,
as the professor of gynecology there.
My determination paved the way for other women,
and in 1876 an act was passed permitting women
to enter the medical professions. In 1883,
I was appointed dean of the London School
of Medicine for Women, which I had helped
to found in 1874, and oversaw its expansion.
In 1908, I became the mayor of Alde burgh
town, the first female mayor in England. I
died in 1917, wishing women would get their
chance everywhere to contribute more to a
better future.